M.o.M. Plot - Events of the Prologue
------------------------------------

The Vanir had observed with great interest the Ring of Soul Trapping given the mortal hero by unknown sources. It could trap the soul of a slain soldier before its detection by the Valkyries, reapers for the army of the gods in Valhalla, or by Freyja, collector of souls destined for the fields of Fólkvangr.

The Vanir busied themselves preparing not so much for Ragnarok as for the events that would follow. After years of tireless searching, they found crystals of the soul-trapping stone at the roots of the tree of life, and set about a very clever plot: forge their own rings of soul-trapping, and wreak havoc on the mortals of Midgard. The Vanir now held hostage the finest of those souls who would have been brought to Valhalla and trained to fight in the ultimate battle against them. The halls of the warriors' paradise remained mostly empty, and Fólkvangr, mostly untrod by mortal foot. 

Before Ragnarok, Loki concocted one last scheme: he switched the souls of his fellow Vanir with the souls trapped in the rings. Thus, the Vanir slain by the Aesir and the mortal hero at Ragnarok were not truly who they seemed, but merely noble warriors clad in the bodies of the chaotic gods. When their souls were freed upon defeat, the Valkyries and Freyja would be there to reclaim them; it was expected, after all, that mortal warriors should be abundant in this battle. The Valkyries sensed the souls and believed them to have come from Freyja's realm, and Freyja, that they had originated in Valhalla. Neither suspected that these souls would re-enter the rings and free the Vanir's souls contained within. The spirits harvested by the reapers were, therefore, of the Vanir themselves, giving them free passage to Odin's realm of Valhalla and to the fields of the Fólkvangr.

Once there, the Vanir had the element of surprise on their side. They easily overpowered the resident Aesir and assumed control. Now they turn back the clock, to test the one mortal who eluded their grasp...